CONSTRUCTION INSTRUCTIONS FOR A KOSSEL
======================================
Printer: http://reprap.org/wiki/Kossel, designed by Johann Rocholl
Document Author: gblock@ctoforaday.com


From notes taken during the build itself, and referenced against replibot.blogspot.co.uk and http://www.flickr.com/photos/jcrocholl
These instructions ARE INCOMPLETE.  I've not even finished the build yet.  Your mileage will vary.  This will be wrong on more than one occasion, and you will throw good money away on something that you'll have to change tomorrow.

I'm steering religiously close to the Kossel design; this document will change as Johann's underlying design does.


Bill of Materials:  Printed Parts
---------------------------------

1 x effector.stl
3 x frame_cheek.stl
3 x frame_endstop.stl
6 x frame_motor.stl
3 x frame_top.stl
3 x roller_left.stl
3 x roller_right.stl
3 x round_glass.stl
1 x tensioner_axle.stl
3 x tensioner_608.stl
3 x spool.stl

BEFORE PRINTING: 

1. Make adjustments for the size of your round base.
   At the time of writing, adjust the round_glass.stl to match the size of your round base; I believe this is moving to configuration.scad.

2. Make adjustments for the bearings you've chosen.
   We're splurging on posh bearings with delrin cases from igus; you can follow Kossel's lead and heat-shrink yourself some tires on ordinary bearings if that's the way you want to play it; but change configuration.scad to match your bearings.

PRINTING:

The accuracy of the system depends on a good spool.  I had really beautiful ones printed by iMaterialize's high-resolution printing process; you can use anything you like, so long as it's well made.  Don't use a sloppy spool.

AFTER PRINTING: Get all your shit together in one place.


Bill of Materials:  Tools
1 x 2.5mm hex driver (I use hex nuts for everything, they're purty)
1 x 5.5mm nut driver (Ditto)


Bill of Materials: Exoskeleton


Bill of Materials: Brains
-------------------------

1 x Total cheat by buying a completed brain that supports a...
1 x 24v power supply.






BUILD THE EXOSKELETON
---------------------

STEP 1:  Attach round_glass.stl sections to hold the print area.
3 x 'short' OpenBeam
3 x round_glass.stl
6 x M3 nuts
3 x M3x8mm screws (? Can't verify - I have a 10" plate and a bastardized setup.)

First you're going to need to do the one thing you'd prefer to do last - attach the sections that will hold your print base.  This is because the nuts will be trapped in the center of the upper horizontal section, and you'll be capping both ends of the extrusion in the next step when you build the exoskeleton.

Best to just get it over with.  Choose three of the short segments of OpenBeam that will be the upper section of the lower support, and attach your round_glass.stl sections in the center.  You can get the positioning right later - what's important now is that they're there, and facing the correct position (on the upper side, pointing what will be towards the center of the platform).


STEP 2:  Build 3 (three) 'sidewalls'; for each:
1 x 'short' OpenBeam with a round_glass.stl attached.
1 x 'short' OpenBeam
2 x frame_motor.stl
8 x M3x8mm screws
8 x M3 nuts

Pair the frame motors with the sidewalls; the angled bit will overhang on either side of the sidewall, and the protruding bit will be on the inside (and will eventually hold the motor, at an angle that points the motor's rotor towards the corner.)  Your round_glass.stl should be at the 'top' of the unit, pointing in the same direction as the motor mount.


STEP 3: Attach corners and vertical posts to the sidewalls:
3 x sidewalls, created moments ago;
3 x 'long' OpenBeam
6 x corner.stl
12 x M3x20mm screws
12 x M3 nuts

At each corner, connect two of the sidewalls by passing an M3x8mm bolt through the corner, through the 'wing' of the frame.stl, and into the OpenBeam extension; each vertical post gets two screws in each of the two outer faces.

This is most easily done by loosely threading a nut onto the end of the bolt and 'sliding' the vertical rail down the nuts into the unit, tightening from the outside once that position is locked.

At this time, your round_glass.stl extensions should be all at the top of the triangle, and all pointing inwards; it should be obvious where your glass is going to be mounted.


STEP 4: Attach tensioners (there are three):
1 x tensioner_608.stl
1 x tensioner_axle.stl OR 1 x M8x16mm bolt
1 x 608ZZ bearing

First, build the tensioner.  Insert the bearing into the tensioner between the vertical strip; it will be a tight fit, and you may need to file down the interior to ensure there's room.  You should get free rotation of the bearing.  Once you've done so, fit the axle/bolt to hold the bearing in position.  Recheck that the bearing spins freely.

Slide the tensioner down the OpenRail extrusion, bearing facing upwards and pointing towards the center.


STEP 5: Build an upper corner (there are three):
1 x frame_cheek.stl
1 x frame_endstop.stl
1 x frame_top.stl
2 x M3x20mm screws
2 x M3x8mm screws
4 x M3 nuts
1 x M3x40mm (anything larger should do)

Like the lower corners, but with a cap on the top that will be used to apply tension via a screw to the tensioner.
The endstop portion of the frame has extra screw holes... for an endstop, as you might have guessed.

Last, drop a screw from the top of the corner down into the tensioner.


STEP 6: Attach horizontal arms to upper corners (there are 3)
1 x 'short' OpenBeam
4 x M3x8mm screws
4 x M3 nuts

Attach horizontal arms using the specified screws.


VERIFY EXOSKELETON GEOMETRY
---------------------------
At this point, stop, and review the geometry of your frame.  Your frame should be:
 - Stable
 - Dimensionally "true"

You should not see twists in the frame; everything should lie stable and flat, regardless of which position you put the form in.  Verify this by lying it on flat surfaces in a variety of ways, and ensuring that there is no "twist" in the frame height; the extrusion should be reliable, and it should lie on any of its vertical faces perfectly.  If the lengths of the verticals aren't perfect, you don't care - but if _any_ dimensional twisting exists in the horizontals, you must correct for it now.

Take your time, here; the quality of your prints depends on the geometry.  Crappy geometry yields crappy prints.


ADD FILAMENT DRIVES
-------------------


STEP X: Attach filament to spools.  (Inner knot, filament can remain loose.)
1 x 65 lb spectra line ('filament')
1 x spool.stl

This involves cutting a length of spectra at 2.5x your height.  (There's slop in there that you'll be trimmin')
Thread one end of the spectra line through the spool at the 'open' end, and tie your best knot.  The spool is now ready to be motor-mounted.


STEP X:  Mount spools to motor (there are three).
1 x filament-wired spool from previous step.
3 x M3x8mm screws
3 x M3 nuts


Step X: Attach motor.


Your rollers should now be tensioned, and able to take the weight of the beams.


ATTACH THE ROLLERS TO THE BEAMS
-------------------------------

STEP 1:  Apply bearings to rollers 
To build a roller (there are three):
1 x roller_left.stl
1 x roller_right.stl
6 x 623 bearings
4 x M3x35mm screws (to hold left and right together; 30mm is a hair too short)
6 x M3x10mm screws (to pin the delrin rollers, three in each half; anything 8-12mm probably works here.)
10 x M3 nuts
12 x M3 washers (must fit next to bearing without affecting movement; bearing-dependent, potentially optional.)
1 x M4x8mm screw
1 x M4 nut

Attach the rollers to left and right halves, three in each side.  Do that by putting a screw through the roller, add two washers, and then screw directly into the plastic; it should have printed tight enough to allow the bolt to thread.  Don't overtighten, or you'll be printing a new one and starting over again.

Note that in my print, the left and right halves came out _just_on the edge of what a 30mm will hold; I need 35mm screws to hold left and right halves together.

Each half has an extension that sticks out; orient that so that the sticky-outy-bit is on the top of the roller, and facing inwards into the triangle; this is where you'll attach the effector later.

Last, there's a place at the top to include an M4 nut and a screw; this allows you to make height adjustments to adjust the vertical height at which you trip the endstop.

TODO(gblock): Thread the m3x12MM bolt to hold the filament.
TODO(gblock): Thread the M4x8MM screw.


RUNNING THE FILAMENT
--------------------
You're now at the stage where you're ready to run the filament.


STEP 1: Floor the rollers
Rest the rollers on the lowest point of their journey as a zero position.

STEP 2: Run the filament
Run the filament attached to the drum past the roller and up through the "outside" of the tensioner's top bearing; in the other direction.  Thread through the slot down to the roller, where you will thread it around an m3x12MM bolt and attach to the roller.  After a few turns, bring the filament down to the drum, add enough turns of spool to equal one length of vertical carriage, thread through the outer spool hole, and tie off the line.

STEP 3:  Apply limited tension
Apply enough tension to verify movement; you'll tighten further momentarily.

STEP 3:  Verify motion
You should now be able to move the roller through its entire axis of movement; ensure that as you move it up, one section of the drum unrolls while the other rolls.  If your roller stops short, you've not left enough length on the roller at the end of step 2.

STEP 4:  Torque it up, baby
Apply a good amount of tension to the line; it should thrum when you pluck it.


BUILD YOUR EFFECTOR
-------------------

STEP 1:  Build the effector
1 x finished extruder of your choice + bolts/screws to screw to effector.
1 x effector.stl
6 x (where the fuck did I get these awesome arms from?)
6 x M3x8mm screws
6 x M3 nuts

The effector platform gets the extruder bolted to it centrally, top or bottom, it's your choice; most people appear to be putting it above, to leave more vertical room for the build space, but that can result in the delta arms hitting the extruder (which then affects the horizontal size of the build space).  Your decision will ultimately be based on how big (or how small) your extruder is.

CENTER IT CAREFULLY.  Deltas are geometry-based, and the geometry *MUST* be good; your extruder should sit exactly within the center of the effector.  Arms must be precisely the same length - again, geometry *MUST* be perfect, or it will affect your print.


STEP 2: Attach the traxxas arms to the effector
6 x M3x20mm screws
6 x M3 nuts
12 x M3 washers

Put a washer on either side of the effector's central holes.  Drive the the screw from the inside out, with the nut on the outside; the order should be screw head -> washer -> plastic -> washer -> traxxas -> nut.  Do that for each of the six effector positions.


STEP 3: Attach the effector to the arms
1 x Effector with six traxxas arms
6 x M3x20mm screws
6 x M3 nuts
12 x M3 washers

Put a washer on either side of each rollers's arm attachment points.  Drive the screw from the inside out, with the nut on the outside; the order should be screw head -> washer -> plastic -> washer -> traxxas -> nut.  Do that for each side the three rollers.

The rollers should be capable of taking the weight of the effector without losing position; the moters should have a strong enough moment, due to the magnets therein, that the plaform won't move until the motor steps.


TODO(gblock): Attach endstops
TODO(gblock): Wire all this shit together
TODO(gblock): ...
TODO(gblock): ...
TODO(gblock): profit.



Parts suppliers (+prices?) used:
TriDPrinting.com
McMaster-carr
SeeMeCNC
Farnell/Element14
MatterHackers
Panucatt
TrinityLabs
iMaterialize
OpenBeamUSA
igus.co.uk


Bearings
------------------
BB-623-B180-10-ES bearings, delrin rollers, igus.co.uk - Stupidly priced.





TODO
----
1) Update to new roller design.  (6 Jan)
2) Re-print spools with proper nut captures.  (9 Jan)
